---
masvs_v1_id:
- MSTG-ARCH-2
- MSTG-AUTH-1
masvs_v2_id:
- MASVS-AUTH-2
platform: general
title: Verifying that Appropriate Authentication is in Place
masvs_v1_levels:
- L1
- L2
---

## Overview

Perform the following steps when testing authentication and authorization:

- Identify the additional authentication factors the app uses.
- Locate all endpoints that provide critical functionality.
- Verify that the additional factors are strictly enforced on all server-side endpoints.

Authentication bypass vulnerabilities exist when authentication state is not consistently enforced on the server and when the client can tamper with the state. While the backend service is processing requests from the mobile client, it must consistently enforce authorization checks: verifying that the user is logged in and authorized every time a resource is requested.

Consider the following example from the [OWASP Web Testing Guide](https://owasp.org/www-project-web-security-testing-guide/stable/4-Web_Application_Security_Testing/04-Authentication_Testing/04-Testing_for_Bypassing_Authentication_Schema "Testing for Bypassing Authentication Schema (WSTG-ATHN-04)"). In the example, a web resource is accessed through a URL, and the authentication state is passed through a GET parameter:

```html
http://www.site.com/page.asp?authenticated=no
```

The client can arbitrarily change the GET parameters sent with the request. Nothing prevents the client from simply changing the value of the `authenticated` parameter to "yes", effectively bypassing authentication.

Although this is a simplistic example that you probably won't find in the wild, programmers sometimes rely on "hidden" client-side parameters, such as cookies, to maintain authentication state. They assume that these parameters can't be tampered with. Consider, for example, the following [classic vulnerability in Nortel Contact Center Manager](http://seclists.org/bugtraq/2009/May/251 "SEC Consult SA-20090525-0 :: Nortel Contact Center Manager Server Authentication Bypass Vulnerability"). The administrative web application of Nortel's appliance relied on the cookie "isAdmin" to determine whether the logged-in user should be granted administrative privileges. Consequently, it was possible to get admin access by simply setting the cookie value as follows:

```html
isAdmin=True
```

Security experts used to recommend using session-based authentication and maintaining session data on the server only. This prevents any form of client-side tampering with the session state. However, the whole point of using stateless authentication instead of session-based authentication is to _not_ have session state on the server. Instead, state is stored in client-side tokens and transmitted with every request. In this case, seeing client-side parameters such as `isAdmin` is perfectly normal.

To prevent tampering cryptographic signatures are added to client-side tokens. Of course, things may go wrong, and popular implementations of stateless authentication have been vulnerable to attacks. For example, the signature verification of some JSON Web Token (JWT) implementations could be deactivated by [setting the signature type to "None"](https://auth0.com/blog/critical-vulnerabilities-in-json-web-token-libraries/ "Critical vulnerabilities in JSON Web Token libraries"). We'll discuss this attack in more detail in the "Testing JSON Web Tokens" chapter.
