---
masvs_v1_id:
- MSTG-AUTH-9
- MSTG-AUTH-10
masvs_v2_id:
- MASVS-AUTH-3
platform: general
title: Testing Two-Factor Authentication and Step-up Authentication
masvs_v1_levels:
- L2
---

## Overview

## Static Analysis

There are various two-factor authentication mechanisms available which can range from 3rd party libraries, usage of external apps to self implemented checks by the developer(s).

Use the app first and identify where 2FA is needed in the workflows (usually during login or when executing critical transactions). Do also interview the developer(s) and/or architects to understand more about the 2FA implementation. If a 3rd party library or external app is used, verify if the implementation was done accordingly to the security best practices.

## Dynamic Testing

Use the app extensively (going through all UI flows) while using an interception proxy to capture the requests sent to remote endpoints. Next, replay requests to endpoints that require 2FA (e.g., performing a financial transaction) while using a token or session ID that hasn't yet been elevated via 2FA or step-up authentication. If an endpoint is still sending back requested data that should only be available after 2FA or step-up authentication, authentication checks haven't been properly implemented at that endpoint.

When OTP authentication is used, consider that most OTPs are short numeric values. An attacker can bypass the second factor by brute-forcing the values within the range at the lifespan of the OTP if the accounts aren't locked after N unsuccessful attempts at this stage. The probability of finding a match for 6-digit values with a 30-second time step within 72 hours is more than 90%.

To test this, the captured request should be sent 10-15 times to the endpoint with random OTP values before providing the correct OTP. If the OTP is still accepted the 2FA implementation is prone to brute force attacks and the OTP can be guessed.

> A OTP should be valid for only a certain amount of time (usually 30 seconds) and after keying in the OTP wrongly several times (usually 3 times) the provided OTP should be invalidated and the user should be redirected to the landing page or logged out.

You should check if the app relies on static responses from the remote endpoint such as `"message":"Success"` to grant access to app internal sensitive data or functions. If that's the case, an attacker could easily bypass the 2FA implementation by manipulating the server response e.g. by using an interception proxy such as [Burp Suite](0x08a-Testing-Tools.md#burp-suite) and modifying the response to be `"message":"Success"`.

To prevent these kind of attacks, the application should always verify some kind of user token or other dynamic information related to the user that was previously securely stored (e.g. in the Keychain/KeyStore).

Consult the [OWASP Testing Guide](https://owasp.org/www-project-web-security-testing-guide/stable/4-Web_Application_Security_Testing/06-Session_Management_Testing/01-Testing_for_Session_Management_Schema "OWASP Testing Guide V4 (Testing for Session Management)") for more information about testing session management.
