---
masvs_v1_id:
- MSTG-AUTH-4
masvs_v2_id:
- MASVS-AUTH-1
platform: general
title: Testing User Logout
---

## Overview

The purpose of this test case is verifying logout functionality and determining whether it effectively terminates the session on both client and server and invalidates a stateless token.

Failing to destroy the server-side session is one of the most common logout functionality implementation errors. This error keeps the session or token alive, even after the user logs out of the application. An attacker who gets valid authentication information can continue to use it and hijack a user's account.

Many mobile apps don't automatically log users out. There can be various reasons, such as: because it is inconvenient for customers, or because of decisions made when implementing stateless authentication. The application should still have a logout function, and it should be implemented according to best practices, destroying all locally stored tokens or session identifiers. If session information is stored on the server, it should also be destroyed by sending a logout request to that server. In case of a high-risk application, tokens should be invalidated. Not removing tokens or session identifiers can result in unauthorized access to the application in case the tokens are leaked.
Note that other sensitive types of information should be removed as well, as any information that is not properly cleared may be leaked later, for example during a device backup.

## Static Analysis

If server code is available, make sure logout functionality terminates the session correctly. This verification will depend on the technology. Here are different examples of session termination for proper server-side logout:

- [Spring (Java)](https://docs.spring.io/autorepo/docs/spring-security/4.1.x/apidocs/org/springframework/security/web/authentication/logout/SecurityContextLogoutHandler.html "Spring (Java)")
- [Ruby on Rails](https://guides.rubyonrails.org/security.html "Ruby on Rails")
- [PHP](https://php.net/manual/en/function.session-destroy.php "PHP")

If access and refresh tokens are used with stateless authentication, they should be deleted from the mobile device. The [refresh token should be invalidated on the server](https://auth0.com/blog/denylist-json-web-token-api-keys/ "Invalidating JSON Web Token API Keys").

## Dynamic Analysis

Use an interception proxy for dynamic application analysis and execute the following steps to check whether the logout is implemented properly:

1. Log in to the application.
2. Access a resource that requires authentication, typically a request for private information belonging to your account.
3. Log out of the application.
4. Try to access the data again by resending the request from step 2.

If the logout is correctly implemented on the server, an error message or redirect to the login page will be sent back to the client. On the other hand, if you receive the same response you got in step 2, the token or session ID is still valid and hasn't been correctly terminated on the server.
The OWASP Web Testing Guide ([WSTG-SESS-06](https://owasp.org/www-project-web-security-testing-guide/latest/4-Web_Application_Security_Testing/06-Session_Management_Testing/06-Testing_for_Logout_Functionality "WSTG-SESS-006")) includes a detailed explanation and more test cases.
