---
masvs_v1_id:
- MSTG-RESILIENCE-10
masvs_v2_id:
- MASVS-CRYPTO-2
platform: android
title: Testing Device Binding
---

## Overview

## Static Analysis

In the past, Android developers often relied on the `Settings.Secure.ANDROID_ID` (SSAID) and MAC addresses. This [changed with the release of Android 8.0 (API level 26)](https://android-developers.googleblog.com/2017/04/changes-to-device-identifiers-in.html "Changes in the Android device identifiers"). As the MAC address is now often randomized when not connected to an access point and the SSAID is no longer a device bound ID. Instead, it became a value bound to the user, the device and the app signing key of the application which requests the SSAID.
In addition, there are new [recommendations for identifiers](https://developer.android.com/training/articles/user-data-ids.html "Developer Android documentation - User data IDs") in Google's SDK documentation. Basically, Google recommends to:

- use the Advertising ID (`AdvertisingIdClient.Info`) when it comes to advertising -so that the user has the option to decline.
- use the Instance ID (`FirebaseInstanceId`) for device identification.
- use the SSAID only for fraud detection and for sharing state between apps signed by the same developer.

Note that the Instance ID and the Advertising ID are not stable across device upgrades and device-resets. However, the Instance ID will at least allow to identify the current software installation on a device.

There are a few key terms you can look for when the source code is available:

- Unique identifiers that will no longer work:
  - `Build.SERIAL` without `Build.getSerial`
  - `htc.camera.sensor.front_SN` for HTC devices
  - `persist.service.bdroid.bdadd`
  - `Settings.Secure.bluetooth_address` or `WifiInfo.getMacAddress` from `WifiManager`, unless the system permission `LOCAL_MAC_ADDRESS` is enabled in the manifest.
- `ANDROID_ID` used only as an identifier. This will influence the binding quality over time for older devices.
- The absence of Instance ID, `Build.SERIAL`, and the IMEI.

```java
  TelephonyManager tm = (TelephonyManager) context.getSystemService(Context.TELEPHONY_SERVICE);
  String IMEI = tm.getDeviceId();
```

- The creation of private keys in the `AndroidKeyStore` using the `KeyPairGeneratorSpec` or `KeyGenParameterSpec` APIs.

To be sure that the identifiers can be used, check `AndroidManifest.xml` for usage of the IMEI and `Build.Serial`. The file should contain the permission `<uses-permission android:name="android.permission.READ_PHONE_STATE" />`.

> Apps for Android 8.0 (API level 26) will get the result "UNKNOWN" when they request `Build.Serial`.

## Dynamic Analysis

There are several ways to test the application binding:

### Dynamic Analysis with an Emulator

1. Run the application on an emulator.
2. Make sure you can raise the trust in the application instance (e.g., authenticate in the app).
3. Retrieve the data from the emulator according to the following steps:
   - SSH into your simulator via an ADB shell.
   - Execute `run-as <your app-id>`. Your app-id is the package described in the AndroidManifest.xml.
   - `chmod 777` the contents of cache and shared-preferences.
   - Exit the current user from the the app-id.
   - Copy the contents of `/data/data/<your appid>/cache` and `shared-preferences` to the SD card.
   - Use ADB or the DDMS to pull the contents.
4. Install the application on another emulator.
5. In the application's data folder, overwrite the data from step 3.
   - Copy the data from step 3 to the second emulator's SD card.
   - SSH into your simulator via an ADB shell.
   - Execute `run-as <your app-id>`. Your app-id is the package described in  `AndroidManifest.xml`.
   - `chmod 777` the folder's cache and shared-preferences.
   - Copy the older contents of the SD card `to /data/data/<your appid>/cache` and `shared-preferences`.
6. Can you continue in an authenticated state? If so, binding may not be working properly.

### Google Instance ID

[Google Instance ID](https://developers.google.com/instance-id/ "Google Instance ID documentation") uses tokens to authenticate the running application instance. The moment the application is reset, uninstalled, etc., the Instance ID is reset, meaning that you'll have a new "instance" of the app.
Go through the following steps for Instance ID:

1. Configure your Instance ID for the given application in your Google Developer Console. This includes managing the PROJECT_ID.

2. Setup Google Play services. In the file `build.gradle`, add

    ```default
    apply plugin: 'com.android.application'
        ...

        dependencies {
            compile 'com.google.android.gms:play-services-gcm:10.2.4'
        }
    ```

3. Get an Instance ID.

    ```java
    String iid = Instance ID.getInstance(context).getId();
    //now submit this iid to your server.
    ```

4. Generate a token.

    ```java
    String authorizedEntity = PROJECT_ID; // Project id from Google Developer Console
    String scope = "GCM"; // e.g. communicating using GCM, but you can use any
                        // URL-safe characters up to a maximum of 1000, or
                        // you can also leave it blank.
    String token = Instance ID.getInstance(context).getToken(authorizedEntity,scope);
    //now submit this token to the server.
    ```

5. Make sure that you can handle callbacks from Instance ID, in case of invalid device information, security issues, etc. This requires extending `Instance IDListenerService` and handling the callbacks there:

    ```java
    public class MyInstance IDService extends Instance IDListenerService {
    public void onTokenRefresh() {
        refreshAllTokens();
    }

    private void refreshAllTokens() {
        // assuming you have defined TokenList as
        // some generalized store for your tokens for the different scopes.
        // Please note that for application validation having just one token with one scopes can be enough.
        ArrayList<TokenList> tokenList = TokensList.get();
        Instance ID iid = Instance ID.getInstance(this);
        for(tokenItem : tokenList) {
        tokenItem.token =
            iid.getToken(tokenItem.authorizedEntity,tokenItem.scope,tokenItem.options);
        // send this tokenItem.token to your server
        }
    }
    };

    ```

6. Register the service in your Android manifest:

    ```xml
    <service android:name=".MyInstance IDService" android:exported="false">
    <intent-filter>
            <action android:name="com.google.android.gms.iid.Instance ID" />
    </intent-filter>
    </service>
    ```

When you submit the Instance ID (iid) and the tokens to your server, you can use that server with the Instance ID Cloud Service to validate the tokens and the iid. When the iid or token seems invalid, you can trigger a safeguard procedure (e.g., informing the server of possible copying or security issues or removing the data from the app and asking for a re-registration).

Please note that [Firebase also supports Instance ID](https://firebase.google.com/docs/reference/android/com/google/firebase/iid/FirebaseInstanceId "Firebase Instance ID documentation").

### IMEI & Serial

Google recommends not using these identifiers unless the application is at a high risk.

For Android devices before Android 8.0 (API level 26), you can request the serial as follows:

```java
   String serial = android.os.Build.SERIAL;
```

For devices running Android version O and later, you can request the device's serial as follows:

1. Set the permission in your Android manifest:

    ```xml
    <uses-permission android:name="android.permission.READ_PHONE_STATE" />
    <uses-permission android:name="android.permission.ACCESS_NETWORK_STATE" />
    ```

2. Request the permission at runtime from the user: See [https://developer.android.com/training/permissions/requesting.html](https://developer.android.com/training/permissions/requesting.html "Request App Permissions") for more details.
3. Get the serial:

    ```java
    String serial = android.os.Build.getSerial();
    ```

Retrieve the IMEI:

1. Set the required permission in your Android manifest:

    ```xml
    <uses-permission android:name="android.permission.READ_PHONE_STATE" />
    ```

2. If you're using Android version Android 6 (API level 23) or later, request the permission at runtime from the user: See [https://developer.android.com/training/permissions/requesting.html](https://developer.android.com/training/permissions/requesting.html "Request App Permissions") for more details.

3. Get the IMEI:

    ```java
    TelephonyManager tm = (TelephonyManager) context.getSystemService(Context.TELEPHONY_SERVICE);
    String IMEI = tm.getDeviceId();
    ```

### SSAID

Google recommends not using these identifiers unless the application is at a high risk. You can retrieve the SSAID as follows:

```java
  String SSAID = Settings.Secure.ANDROID_ID;
```

The behavior of the SSAID and MAC addresses have [changed since Android 8.0 (API level 26)](https://android-developers.googleblog.com/2017/04/changes-to-device-identifiers-in.html "Changes in the Android device identifiers"). In addition, there are [new recommendations](https://developer.android.com/training/articles/user-data-ids.html "Developer Android documentation") for identifiers in Google's SDK documentation. Because of this new behavior, we recommend that developers not rely on the SSAID alone. The identifier has become less stable. For example, the SSAID may change after a factory reset or when the app is reinstalled after the upgrade to Android 8.0 (API level 26). There are devices that have the same `ANDROID_ID` and/or have an `ANDROID_ID` that can be overridden. Therefore it is better to encrypt the `ANDROID_ID` with a randomly generated key from the `AndroidKeyStore` using `AES_GCM` encryption. The encrypted `ANDROID_ID` should then be stored in the `SharedPreferences` (privately). The moment the app-signature changes, the application can check for a delta and register the new `ANDROID_ID`. The moment this changes without a new application signing key, it should indicate that something else is wrong.

## Effectiveness Assessment

There are a few key terms you can look for when the source code is available:

- Unique identifiers that will no longer work:
  - `Build.SERIAL` without `Build.getSerial`
  - `htc.camera.sensor.front_SN` for HTC devices
  - `persist.service.bdroid.bdadd`
  - `Settings.Secure.bluetooth_address` or `WifiInfo.getMacAddress` from `WifiManager`, unless the system permission `LOCAL_MAC_ADDRESS` is enabled in the manifest.

- Usage of ANDROID_ID as an identifier only. Over time, this will influence the binding quality on older devices.
- The absence of Instance ID, `Build.SERIAL`, and the IMEI.

```java
  TelephonyManager tm = (TelephonyManager) context.getSystemService(Context.TELEPHONY_SERVICE);
  String IMEI = tm.getDeviceId();
```

To make sure that the identifiers can be used, check `AndroidManifest.xml` for usage of the IMEI and `Build.Serial`. The manifest should contain the permission `<uses-permission android:name="android.permission.READ_PHONE_STATE" />`.

There are a few ways to test device binding dynamically:

### Using an Emulator

See section "[Dynamic Analysis with an Emulator](#dynamic-analysis-with-an-emulator "Dynamic Analysis with an Emulator")" above.

### Using two different rooted devices

1. Run the application on your rooted device.
2. Make sure you can raise the trust (e.g., authenticate in the app) in the application instance.
3. Retrieve the data from the first rooted device.
4. Install the application on the second rooted device.
5. In the application's data folder, overwrite the data from step 3.
6. Can you continue in an authenticated state? If so, binding may not be working properly.
