---
masvs_v1_id:
- MSTG-CODE-6
masvs_v2_id: []
platform: ios
title: Testing Exception Handling
masvs_v1_levels:
- L1
- L2
---

## Overview

## Static Analysis

Review the source code to understand how the application handles various types of errors (IPC communications, remote services invocation, etc.). The following sections list examples of what you should check for each language at this stage.

### Static Analysis in Objective-C

Make sure that

- the application uses a well-designed and unified scheme to handle exceptions and errors,
- the Cocoa framework exceptions are handled correctly,
- the allocated memory in the `@try` blocks is released in the `@finally` blocks,
- for every `@throw`, the calling method has a proper `@catch` at the level of either the calling method or the `NSApplication`/`UIApplication` objects to clean up sensitive information and possibly recover,
- the application doesn't expose sensitive information while handling errors in its UI or in its log statements, and the statements are verbose enough to explain the issue to the user,
- high-risk applications' confidential information, such as keying material and authentication information, is always wiped during the execution of `@finally` blocks,
- `raise` is rarely used (it's used when the program must be terminated without further warning),
- `NSError` objects don't contain data that might leak sensitive information.

### Static Analysis in Swift

Make sure that

- the application uses a well-designed and unified scheme to handle errors,
- the application doesn't expose sensitive information while handling errors in its UI or in its log statements, and the statements are verbose enough to explain the issue to the user,
- high-risk applications' confidential information, such as keying material and authentication information, is always wiped during the execution of `defer` blocks,
- `try!` is used only with proper guarding up front (to programmatically verify that the method that's called with `try!` can't throw an error).

### Proper Error Handling

Developers can implement proper error handling in several ways:

- Make sure that the application uses a well-designed and unified scheme to handle errors.
- Make sure that all logging is removed or guarded as described in the test case "Testing for Debugging Code and Verbose Error Logging".
- For a high-risk application written in Objective-C: create an exception handler that removes secrets that shouldn't be easily retrievable. The handler can be set via `NSSetUncaughtExceptionHandler`.
- Refrain from using `try!` in Swift unless you're certain that there's no error in the throwing method that's being called.
- Make sure that the Swift error doesn't propagate into too many intermediate methods.

## Dynamic Testing

There are several dynamic analysis methods:

- Enter unexpected values in the iOS application's UI fields.
- Test the custom URL schemes, pasteboard, and other inter-app communication controls by providing unexpected or exception-raising values.
- Tamper with the network communication and/or the files stored by the application.
- For Objective-C, you can use Cycript to hook into methods and provide them arguments that may cause the callee to throw an exception.

In most cases, the application should not crash. Instead, it should

- recover from the error or enter a state from which it can inform the user that it can't continue,
- provide a message (which shouldn't leak sensitive information) to get the user to take appropriate action,
- withhold information from the application's logging mechanisms.
