---
masvs_v1_id:
- MSTG-CODE-6
masvs_v2_id: []
platform: android
title: Testing Exception Handling
---

## Overview

## Static Analysis

Review the source code to understand the application and identify how it handles different types of errors (IPC communications, remote services invocation, etc.). Here are some examples of things to check at this stage:

- Make sure that the application uses a well-designed and unified scheme to [handle exceptions](https://wiki.sei.cmu.edu/confluence/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=88487665 "Exceptional Behavior (ERR)").
- Plan for standard `RuntimeException`s (e.g.`NullPointerException`, `IndexOutOfBoundsException`, `ActivityNotFoundException`, `CancellationException`, `SQLException`) by creating proper null checks, bound checks, and the like. An [overview of the available subclasses of `RuntimeException`](https://developer.android.com/reference/java/lang/RuntimeException.html "Runtime Exception Class") can be found in the Android developer documentation. A child of `RuntimeException` should be thrown intentionally, and the intent should be handled by the calling method.
- Make sure that for every non-runtime `Throwable` there's a proper catch handler, which ends up handling the actual exception properly.
- When an exception is thrown, make sure that the application has centralized handlers for exceptions that cause similar behavior. This can be a static class. For exceptions specific to the method, provide specific catch blocks.
- Make sure that the application doesn't expose sensitive information while handling exceptions in its UI or log-statements. Ensure that exceptions are still verbose enough to explain the issue to the user.
- Make sure that all confidential information handled by high-risk applications is always wiped during execution of the `finally` blocks.

```java
byte[] secret;
try{
    //use secret
} catch (SPECIFICEXCEPTIONCLASS | SPECIFICEXCEPTIONCLASS2 e) {
    // handle any issues
} finally {
    //clean the secret.
}
```

Adding a general exception handler for uncaught exceptions is a best practice for resetting the application's state when a crash is imminent:

```java
public class MemoryCleanerOnCrash implements Thread.UncaughtExceptionHandler {

    private static final MemoryCleanerOnCrash S_INSTANCE = new MemoryCleanerOnCrash();
    private final List<Thread.UncaughtExceptionHandler> mHandlers = new ArrayList<>();

    //initialize the handler and set it as the default exception handler
    public static void init() {
        S_INSTANCE.mHandlers.add(Thread.getDefaultUncaughtExceptionHandler());
        Thread.setDefaultUncaughtExceptionHandler(S_INSTANCE);
    }

     //make sure that you can still add exception handlers on top of it (required for ACRA for instance)
    public void subscribeCrashHandler(Thread.UncaughtExceptionHandler handler) {
        mHandlers.add(handler);
    }

    @Override
    public void uncaughtException(Thread thread, Throwable ex) {

            //handle the cleanup here
            //....
            //and then show a message to the user if possible given the context

        for (Thread.UncaughtExceptionHandler handler : mHandlers) {
            handler.uncaughtException(thread, ex);
        }
    }
}
```

Now the handler's initializer must be called in your custom `Application` class (e.g., the class that extends `Application`):

```java
@Override
protected void attachBaseContext(Context base) {
    super.attachBaseContext(base);
    MemoryCleanerOnCrash.init();
}
```

## Dynamic Analysis

There are several ways to do dynamic analysis:

- Use Xposed to hook into methods and either call them with unexpected values or overwrite existing variables with unexpected values (e.g., null values).
- Type unexpected values into the Android application's UI fields.
- Interact with the application using its intents, its public providers, and unexpected values.
- Tamper with the network communication and/or the files stored by the application.

The application should never crash; it should

- recover from the error or transition into a state in which it can inform the user of its inability to continue,
- if necessary, tell the user to take appropriate action (The message should not leak sensitive information.),
- not provide any information in logging mechanisms used by the application.
