---
masvs_v1_id:
- MSTG-STORAGE-12
masvs_v2_id: []
platform: general
title: Testing User Education on Data Privacy on the App Marketplace
---

## Overview

At this point, we're only interested in knowing which privacy-related information is being disclosed by the developers and trying to evaluate if it seems reasonable (similarly as you'd do when testing for permissions).

> It's possible that the developers are not declaring certain information that is indeed being collected and\/or shared, but that's a topic for a different test extending this one here. As part of this test, you are not supposed to provide privacy violation assurance.

## Static Analysis

You can follow these steps:

1. Search for the app in the corresponding app marketplace (e.g. Google Play, App Store).
2. Go to the section ["Privacy Details"](https://developer.apple.com/app-store/app-privacy-details/) (App Store) or ["Safety Section"](https://developer.android.com/guide/topics/data/collect-share) (Google Play).
3. Verify if there's any information available at all.

The test passes if the developer has complied with the app marketplace guidelines and included the required labels and explanations. Store and provide the information you got from the app marketplace as evidence, so that you can later use it to evaluate potential violations of privacy or data protection.

## Dynamic analysis

As an optional step, you can also provide some kind of evidence as part of this test. For instance, if you're testing an iOS app you can easily enable app activity recording and export a [Privacy Report](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/network/privacy_management/inspecting_app_activity_data) containing detailed app access to different resources such as photos, contacts, camera, microphone, network connections, etc.

Doing this has actually many advantages for testing other MASVS categories. It provides very useful information that you can use to [test network communication](0x06g-Testing-Network-Communication.md) in MASVS-NETWORK or when [testing app permissions](0x06h-Testing-Platform-Interaction.md#testing-app-permissions-mstg-platform-1) in MASVS-PLATFORM. While testing these other categories you might have taken similar measurements using other testing tools. You can also provide this as evidence for this test.

> Ideally, the information available should be compared against what the app is actually meant to do. However, that's far from a trivial task that could take from several days to weeks to complete depending on your resources and support from automated tooling. It also heavily depends on the app functionality and context and should be ideally performed on a white box setup working very closely with the app developers.
